---
title: "The Grape | Border Studies Progam"
date: 2018-03-23T16:51:33-05:00
formattedDate: "March 9, 2018"
time: 6:29pm
tags: []
issueid: 2018-03
draft: false
featured: false
# weight: 
section: "Features"
sectionid: "features"
header: "Learning In and Out the Classroom"
subheader: "A look Inside The Border Studies Program"
header_image: "test-image.png"
img_info: "This is a test description for the header info."
contributor: mhanuka 
---

The border between the United States and Mexico spans approximately 2,000 miles from Texas to California. It is a space of complex cultural shifts, contestation, and politico-economic significance. With the country facing the effects of 143,470 overall administrative arrests in 2017, and Donald Trump’s move to end DACA announced in September, the study of migration and immigration policy on the border remains especially relevant. 

To learn more about policy, each year, a group of Oberlin students travels to the border, specifically, the southern Arizona borderlands. Instead of traveling to one of the many study abroad sites in Europe or Africa, each year a number of Oberlin students attend the Border Study Program (BSP). They choose to spend their semester in their own country, digging into local activism and issues surrounding migration in order to understand the implications of their own positions. 
The idea for the BSP was first conceived by the Great Lakes College Association in the mid-1990’s. Though originally designed to take place between El Paso and Ciudad Juaréz, the program was moved to Tucson in 2008. Located 60 miles from the border, Tucson remains a city of distinct cultural richness and complexity. The population is made up of indigenous people living there (The Tejano Tribe), immigrants of Central American origin, and the white inhabitants of the city.  Its activist history as a border city makes it a unique place to engage in coursework, field studies, and seminars that provide them the opportunity to, as BSP alum Alizah Simon puts it, “study both the U.S.-Mexico border as a physical place, and also of some of the structural conditions that explain U.S. immigration policy and migration from within the States. So you’re learning about border culture, about interaction between immigration and the United States, but also thinking about the larger political context”. 

To students currently at Oberlin, the program may seem almost elusive and mysterious, since to many, day-to-day life on the physical borderlands can seem like a world away. While in Tucson, however, students on the program  have more or less regulated schedules. Most live in South Tucson with first-generation immigrant families. The experience of living with a host family gives students the opportunity to practice Spanish while allowing for an authentic experience of living in the city. The opportunity to move around the city independently and familiarize themselves with many neighborhoods integrates students into Tucson’s culture, and grounds BSP as a program. For Sofia Smith Hale, who returned from BSP after the Fall 2017 semester, this integration was intrinsic to the program: “A powerful memory I have from the Border Studies Program is moving and existing in a city and landscape that is ‘neither here nor there,’ as [critical theorist] Gloria Anzaldúa puts it. Tucson felt like a beautiful in-between world, caught between the national borders of the U.S. and Mexico, distinct from both but made of both at the same time. This place and its people taught me to question the dichotomies that are so pervasive throughout the rest of the country; those dichotomies that teach us to disconnect from our own bodies, from the natural world, and from each other. This teaching has stayed with me since and has deeply influenced how I carry myself through the world.”

Besides regular classes, students go on a broad variety of trips in and around Arizona and Mexico to learn about issues of militarization. Outside of trips and classes, they engage with a local organization to complete an internship dealing with a topic they are passionate about. These field works directly contribute to justice work and educate BSP students about social and environmental change.  

Field studies are the essence of BSP’s model of experiential learning: students learn outside the classroom and continue to connect to Tucson’s community. Smith Hale, for example, worked with an organization called Florence Immigrant and Refugee rights project: “I was accompanying a legal assistant to a detention center called Eloy Detention Center just outside of Tucson. I was doing intake forms with people who were being detained, either after crossing the border or after living in the States for their whole life, and in the process for applying for political asylum. I was doing intake forms, so basically interviewing people to find out their history and what kind of political relief they were seeking, and helping the assistant in any way she needed.” Laura McManamy, who completed the program in Fall 2017, worked at Las Milpitas de Cottonwood Community Garden, where Alizah Simon had been in her semester at BSP a year prior. “We learned about desert agriculture, gave workshops, and did actual physical gardening and planting” explains Simon. The urban garden involves learning about “desert farming methods and workshops. Community members can sign up for plots and get seeds and tools and help. It’s a community oriented bilingual space run by the food bank” says McManamy. An example of a less “political” field study, it remains a powerful memory for McManamy, who looks back on Las Milpitas as a one of the highlights of BSP. “Getting to know community members as we planted or helped with maintenance projects gave me another lens through which to experience the borderlands. A place of intense militarization, where the border patrol has a constant and visible presence and deportations occur in weekly mass hearings, the borderlands felt at times overwhelmingly inundated with state violence. But Las Milpitas reminded me that the borderlands are also a place where people laugh together as they plant kale, and throw garden parties after Halloween to compost old pumpkins. Cultivating community life, these "small" acts contribute to the wider, vibrant network of resistance that is woven into Tucson's border culture.”

The BSP students who I interviewed agreed that coming back to Oberlin after the program is both difficult and opportuneful. Returning from a study abroad is always hard, yet BSP students are faced with the unique task of employing the knowledge they learned and continuing to synthesize it. “I was a little bit stunned just by how much I was regressing to feeling physically powerless whereas when you’re physically on the border there’s so much infrastructure to get involved with. While there is amazing organizing going on at Oberlin, it is physically distant. But at the same time, coming back to Oberlin has allowed me to channel what I know into the community and I see ways that local outreach goes in Lorain and more, and that is exciting” says Simon, characterizing the challenges of coming back. Furthermore, what students experience and learn there proves to widen the scope that Oberlin as an institution can provide. “Everything I took away from Border Studies has added to my path in terms of what I want to study,” says Smith Hale. “I feel like I can be really present here while experiencing the experience of last semester.” 

And finally, what should current Oberlin students consider? Simon asserts, “The Border Studies Program is an experience you can’t get on your own, the education that the program provides is so well formed and specific. It’s a special thing we have access to and I would recommend it to anyone.”

*Contact contributing writer Miriam Khanukaev at mkhanuka@oberlin.edu.*
