---
title: "The Grape | I Tonya"
date: 2018-02-23T16:53:21-05:00
formattedDate: "Feb 23, 2018"
time: 4:53pm
tags: []
issueid: 2018-02
draft: "false"
featured: "false"
# weight: 
section: "Arts&Culture"
sectionid: "arts-culture"
header: "\“I, Tonya”\"
subheader: "and the Financial Realities of Being an Olympic Competitor"
header_image: "Olympics Article.jpeg"
img_info: "This is a test description for the header info."
contributor: Emory McCool
---
“I, Tonya,” a dramatized re-telling of the events surrounding Tonya Harding and Nancy Kerrigan leading up to the 1994 Olympics, is nominated for three awards at this year’s Oscars. Using interviews with Harding, her family, ex-husband, and coach, the film re-examines the events leading up to and following the attack of Nancy Kerrigan, Harding’s teammate and competition. Harding and those close to her were implicated in the attack. Moving away from Kerrigan’s perspective, which was the focus of the story at the time, the film works to evoke sympathy for Harding. It details the struggles of being a working class Olympic athlete, whose single mom worked as a waitress and sewed her daughter’s skating costumes herself because she couldn’t afford to buy them. Nancy Kerrigan is instead neither villainized nor exalted, but is simply portrayed as a young woman who is in the wrong place at the wrong time. The villain, if there must be one, is the American public and a class system that dehumanized and abused Harding by creating her in the “white-trash” archetype. 
	In light of the 2018 Winter Olympics, we are forced to confront the enormous cost of being an Olympic athlete and the systemic inequality inherently present in the games. According to Money Magazine, Olympic-bound figure skaters can expect to spend anywhere between $35,000-$50,000 a year. Given that most top figure skaters begin skating before the age of five years-old and hope to continue into their twenties, training costs could potentially reach $750,000 over a fifteen year career. Forbes reports that the serious downhill skier might spend as much as $30,000 a year for a spot at a selective training academy, and that those training for the Olympics will most likely spend a decade training at clubs such as these, amounting to a total of $300,000. These cost estimates do not necessarily account for the full opportunity cost as many of them fail to acknowledge the loss of working hours for the families and caregivers of young athletes. Because they must shuttle their kids back and forth from practice, travel to and from meets or races, and coordinate physical therapy and coaching sessions, it is often impossible for the guardians of a young athlete to work full time jobs. Unlike many nations, the U.S. does very little to support aspiring Olympians at the federal level. Most receive a stipend of about $400 a month, not nearly enough to cover their expenses. Only 10.3% of the United States Olympic Committee’s budget is allocated for direct support of athletes.
Winter Olympic sports tend to be some of the least geographically accessible as well. There are, for example, two luge tracks in the entire country. One is in Lake Placid, New York, and the other is in Park City, Utah. Unless, as in the case of Olympic luger Tucker West, your family can afford to build a luge track in your home, you either have to already live in Lake Placid or Park City, or move there. There are only six ski-jump facilities in the United States and one is, of course, in Lake Placid. 
	As a result of the cost and geographical obstacles, Winter Olympians tend to be from the same towns: predominantly affluent and white. Take the town of Norwich, Vermont for example. With a population currently hovering around 3,000, the town has produced three Olympic medalists and has put at least one athlete on the Winter Olympic team every year since 1984. In an article published earlier this month, NPR stated that 40% of Olympic athletes are from just five states: Colorado, California, Minnesota, New York, and Utah. In his article about growing up in Saranac, N.Y., the birthplace of two 2018 Winter Olympic athletes, Shane Ryan names and defines “The Sports Accessibility Principle.” The principle states that the more financially accessible a sport is, the more likely it is that the most decorated athletes are truly the most talented, hardworking, and deserving. Essentially, sports are made better by greater accessibility, for both athletes and audiences alike. The prejudices that shadowed Tonya Harding’s career are still very much at play in this year’s Olympic games. In 2018, there is still much to be done to make winter Olympic sports accessible to all. 
